Welcome back everyone to this lecture on the interview process.
Let's go through what you can expect during the interview process sometimes known as the interview pipeline.
Keep in mind many companies will have their own unique approach to interviewing candidates for a science
position and they may differ from this generalization.
The generalization going to present here is more leaning towards tech companies in the Bay Area and
California or tech companies in larger cities such as Seattle Portland OR New York City.
But in general when you're applying for a scientist position you can expect something to go a little
bit like this.
But again many companies will have their own unique approach.
OK so what is the actual process look like will go in described as a brief overview and will dive into
each of these for little more detail.
So the first thought starts of some sort of connection that is you get your resume to the company then
it goes through a recruiter screening.
So not only do they screen your resume but eventually you're going to get contacted by a recruiter and
they will screen you for the position.
Then it goes to a technical screening so someone a little more technical background is going to screen
you to check if you are a good candidate or not.
Then it goes to a take home task.
This is not always a step but it often is for tech companies in the data science field.
And then it moves on to an onsite interview.
OK.
Each of these individual steps has multiple parts sources cost them in just a little more detail.
We'll start off with the connection.
So this occurs sometime after you apply.
And basically it's getting your resume in front of someone so that they decide hey I'm going to reach
out to this person and contact them.
So we discuss the actual application process in more detail later on in the landing interviews lecture.
But we're going to assume as far as this press concern you were somehow able to connect to the company
maybe through your network maybe you just open up their job Web site and sent in your resume that way.
So once you have the connection and the internal recruiter decides hey I'm going to reach out to this
person that you have the recruiters screening the recruiter screening is typically a phone call or it's
also sometimes a web video call something like Google hangout or Skype.
And what the recruiter is going to do is they're going to start off usually giving you details about
the company and the position.
And keep in mind this is just as much for them as it is for you.
So here you can decide whether or not the actual position is a good fit for you.
Oftentimes the actual position of what the recruiter knows is going to be a little different than what
was actually posted on the job postings is a really good time for you to ask questions and get familiar
in the side.
Hayes is actually a position I would want to fill.
Once you learn about the company and the position and the recruiter gives you kind of the screening.
They're also going to ask you questions about your experience check if you're a good culture fit for
the company.
Typically it's almost always non-technical.
It's just to decide is this person going to be a good fit based off their experience.
And are they a good culture fit after you've gone through the recruiter screening.
Often what is next is a technical screening and the technical screening is going to be often a phone
call or a web video call of a more technical member of the team who you may be working with in the future
if you actually accept the position or even maybe your possible future manager although it's usually
just someone technical at the same level of the position and they're going to be asking technical questions
on a wide variety of topics.
Often there is like probability questions and there are statistics questions coding questions.
It often depends on what the actual position that you are applying to described.
And it also gives you a chance to find out a little bit more about the technical aspects of the job.
So if you do get a chance to have a phone call or a web video conference call with someone after the
technical screening they'll usually open up the floor to any questions you may have about the position
and what the technical aspects of it are.
You should note however more and more often this is actually becoming an automated process.
So the technical screening if the recruiter says you're OK they will send you a link to a technical
screening hosted on some sort of web site and you'll answer the questions given some sort of time limit
so maybe you'll have like five questions in 30 minutes they have to do.
And this whole process may actually be automated instead of you conversing with someone so keep that
in mind some companies do do this through some sort of automated fashion after that often there's also
a take home task.
Now not every company is going to have this that and sometimes they kind of combine this step with the
technical screenings instead of you having technical screening where you talk to someone the technical
screening will be the take home task itself.
So you're often given a data set that you need to either do some sort of freeform analysis so they give
you a data set and they ask you Well what would you do this data.
What kind of insights can you give us.
Or they ask you to actually create a model that solves a particular task so maybe they give you a bunch
of sales data and they ask you to forecast sales into the future 2 quarters or something of that nature.
Again it really depends on the company here.
But take home tasks are in data scientist positions a lot more common than other software engineering
roles.
So let's say you passed a recruiters screening you pass the technical screening you did the take home
test.
Then it comes time for an onsite interview.
And this is actually the most intensive part of the process.
And the one that even though you've exhausted a ton of energy by this point you still got to bring your
A-game when it comes to the onsite interview.
Some companies have multiple onsite especially for really technical roles.
Have you come more than once.
But usually the cases that you come in and it's actually several meetings lined up back to back something
you should be aware of that it's going to take a lot of stamina to go through these meetings so at the
beginning you have a lot of energy but then interview number four comes around and each interview is
like half an hour long.
You've already been there for two hours and you start to get a little tired.
So when they ask you for things like Would you like something to drink or water.
You should probably accept that because we're going to be talking a lot.
So you can talk with multiple team members both technical and non-technical.
And again this kind of depends.
Per the company but the onsite interview kind of an intense process.
You may have to do some whiteboarding as far as answering questions but this also give you a really
great chance to really get a feel for what that position is going to be like who you are going to be
working with what the company looks like etc..
So we discuss specific parts of the general pipeline later on in this course such as how to actually
get the connection how to land the interview.
OK.
I hope that was helpful to you at the next lecture.